now there are beautiful experiments done
on extremely simple organisms which are
philosophically important I'll give you
one example of that so you can take two
identical organisms simple organism like
worms make them exactly identical and
put them in exactly identical
environments and take one of these genes
that is chance dependent okay and ask
the question why is it that one of these
worms develops one phenotype it's like
two twins one of these ones develops one
and the other one doesn't develop them
that same feature or phenotype right and
the answer is that right at a molecular
level there are stochastic variations in
molecules molecules are rising and
falling like statistically just like you
know atoms are moving in the air and
when they rise above a certain level
they kick off a threshold and that worm
becomes goes in one direction when they
rise below that threshold that warmth
goes in the other direction you can make
it rise above that certain level of the
threshold by environmental influences
you can force it to rise and therefore
push the pushed one animal in one
direction but it's a beautiful
explanation number one and number two
it's a giant flea I think ultimately
that we are very similar and that our
lives are knitted together in similar
ways and what we're really experiencing
is the I think profound interplay
between chance and genes and
environments